[Music]
thank you for joining us at 13 GMT and
there is mounting International
condemnation of Israel following its air
strike in central Gaza which killed 18
people including six employees of the UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees unra
says it's the highest death toll of its
staff in a single incident the eu's
foreign policy Chief Joseph Bell
condemned Wednesday's attack in Al nerat
refugee camp and said in a statement he
was outraged by the killing of six unra
stafas after Israeli strikes hit for the
fifth time a school in nerat Sheltering
12,000 displaced people the disregard of
the basic principles of international
humanitarian law especially protection
of civilians cannot and should not be
accepted by the International Community
the German foreign Ministry also
condemned the deaths of the UN staff
saying humanitarian Aid workers must
never be victims of rockets the death of
six unra staff at a school in nerat is
totally unacceptable Rose who's the
senior deputy director of unra Affairs
in Gaza he is in car Unis and says unra
employees are devastated and feel
nowhere in Gaza is
safe this is one of the most difficult
days that that we faced in unra in Gaza
during the most difficult conflicts that
we've we've ever faced staff in the
offices are in Shock that they're
grieving they're despairing and the
colleagues on the ground who who I've
talk to in the shelter providing first
line response are just are just
devastated yet another attack on a
protected un facility the fifth time as
he said at the at the start of the the
the clip that that that this school
itself has been attacked so it it's
devastating it's horrific it's all these
superlatives and just the scale and the
rapidity of the incidents they just too
difficult for us to get our heads around
sometimes
these were local humanitarian workers
who were helping their fellow
Palestinians today Gaza really is a
dangerous place uh to work for for
humanitarian workers no one seems to be
safe is there a point Sam where where it
will be impossible to do your work on
the ground I mean we're certainly
running out of options the highest
number of un workers and humanitarians
slain in in any conflict the vast
majority of them unra workers we're
facing increasing difficulties getting
our supplies into Gaza we had a terrible
terrible incident at one of the
checkpoints uh trying to go north a
couple of of of nights ago to to lead on
the administration of of the polio
campaign so yeah we're running out of
options the space in which we're able to
operate let's now speak to Alan leel
who's the former director General of
Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs he
was also uh Israeli ambassador to South
Africa joining us from Tel Aviv uh
Ambassador thank you so much for being
with us we hear a global condemnation
yet again of Israel how will the
Netanyahu government be viewing this
does does this International
condemnation matter at all to Israel's
government and I just heard ER your
description of what happened sounds
terrible but I must tell you we were not
exposed here in Israel to any of it yet
H our the coverage here of the war is
focusing today on Syria on Lebanon and
still on this American Turkish peace
activist so maybe it's uh about to come
but there is no coverage here
so if you ask about the impact
internally in Israel or on our
government ER we were not exposed to it
and uh the only thing I've heard so far
is that Netanyahu is not answering the
phone calls of the Secretary General of
the UN gutes but they didn't explain
Beyond it so I guess it was the related
to but it's not the first time that
we've seen condemnation of Israel um
from from the International Community
whether from the European Union we've
heard from Joseph Burell the UN
Secretary General these attacks have
happened very often in the past 11
months almost a year now and there's
condemnation of Israel denunciation of
Israel and none of that seems to
resonate with the Israeli
government sure this is happening almost
daily and obviously there is a an
accumulation and it's a burden on
Israel's image and on Israel's
International
standing but if I am trying to penetrate
the mind of the Israeli government and
as you know I'm not there for a long
period of time now I think the Israeli
government cares less at this stage
about public reaction media reaction and
it focuses on governmental reactions and
I think only when it comes to a
governmental level to a governmental
move the Israeli government is seeing is
seeing it as damage to our International
standing as long as long as it's media I
don't think they are very caring about
what about Mr ly what about the Israelis
Israeli citizens are they not concerned
about their country's Global image it's
deteriorating image Israel uh being
accused of
genocide well uh first we don't see what
you see abroad much of what you see
abroad we don't see here
and the Israelis are focusing on their
own casualties and we have casualties
almost every day now on the damage to
the North of Israel to the south of
Israel so the agenda here is very
different what Israel is know and hear
is what's going on in the two
International courts in the H what's
going on in the UN and if there is a
governmental move ER specifically like
recognition of Palestine and so on it
reaches the news here but I don't think
the Israeli public not the experts and
not the maybe Ministry officials forign
Ministry officials I don't think the
Israeli public is worried at this stage
about it it's much more worried about
the personal security and maybe the
damage to the
economy make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer